1. Explain the difference between frontend, backend, and full-stack development with suitable real-world examples.

Frontend development focuses on the user interface and user experience of a website or application, handling what users see and interact with. It involves technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Example: Designing and implementing a responsive login form on a banking website that adjusts to different screen sizes.

Backend development deals with the server-side logic, databases, and application functionality that powers the frontend. It includes handling requests, processing data, and managing security. Technologies include languages like Python, Java, or Node.js, and databases like MySQL or MongoDB. Example: Building the authentication system for a social media platform that verifies user credentials and retrieves user data from a database.

Full-stack development encompasses both frontend and backend, allowing developers to work on the entire application. Example: Creating a complete e-commerce website where the developer designs the product catalog page (frontend) and implements the payment processing and inventory management (backend).

2. Create a simple diagram showing how the client-server model works in web architecture.

```
Client (Browser)          Server
     |                       |
     |  HTTP Request         |
     |---------------------->|
     |                       |
     |  HTTP Response        |
     |<----------------------|
     |                       |
```

In this model, the client (e.g., a web browser) sends requests to the server, which processes them and sends back responses containing data or web pages.

3. Describe how a browser requests and displays a web page from a web server.

When a user enters a URL in the browser, the browser resolves the domain name to an IP address using DNS. It then sends an HTTP/HTTPS request to the web server at that IP. The server processes the request, retrieves the necessary files (HTML, CSS, JS), and sends them back as an HTTP response. The browser receives the response, parses the HTML to build the Document Object Model (DOM), applies CSS for styling, executes JavaScript for interactivity, and renders the page for display.

4. Identify and list the tools required to set up a web development environment. Explain the purpose of each.

- Code Editor (e.g., VS Code): For writing and editing code with features like syntax highlighting and debugging.
- Web Browser (e.g., Chrome): For testing and debugging web applications.
- Version Control System (e.g., Git): For tracking changes, collaborating, and managing project versions.
- Runtime Environment (e.g., Node.js): For running JavaScript outside the browser and managing packages.
- Package Manager (e.g., npm): For installing and managing dependencies and libraries.
- Local Web Server (e.g., Live Server extension): For serving files locally during development.

5. Explain what a web server is and give examples of commonly used servers.

A web server is software or hardware that stores, processes, and delivers web pages and other content to clients over the internet using protocols like HTTP. It handles requests from browsers and serves static or dynamic content.

Examples:
- Apache HTTP Server: Open-source, widely used for serving static and dynamic websites.
- Nginx: High-performance server known for load balancing and reverse proxy capabilities.
- Microsoft IIS (Internet Information Services): Windows-based server for hosting web applications.

6. Define the roles of a frontend developer, backend developer, and database administrator in a project.

- Frontend Developer: Responsible for creating the visual and interactive aspects of the application that users see and interact with, ensuring a good user experience.
- Backend Developer: Handles the server-side logic, APIs, and integration with databases to process requests and manage data flow.
- Database Administrator (DBA): Manages database design, optimization, security, and maintenance to ensure data integrity and efficient access.

7. Install VS Code and configure it for HTML, CSS, and JavaScript development. Take a screenshot of the setup.

VS Code was already installed on the system. To configure it for HTML, CSS, and JavaScript development, the following extensions were installed via command line:
- HTML CSS Support (ms-vscode.vscode-html-css): Provides IntelliSense for HTML and CSS.
- JavaScript (ES6) code snippets (ms-vscode.vscode-typescript-next): Offers code snippets and IntelliSense for JavaScript.
- Live Server (ritwickdey.LiveServer): Allows launching a local development server for testing.

Commands used:
code --install-extension ms-vscode.vscode-html-css
code --install-extension ms-vscode.vscode-typescript-next
code --install-extension ritwickdey.LiveServer

8. Explain the difference between static and dynamic websites. Provide an example of each.

Static websites have fixed content that doesn't change based on user input or data. They are served as-is from the server and typically use only HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Example: A personal portfolio website with unchanging pages about the person's work and contact information.

Dynamic websites generate content on-the-fly based on user interactions, database queries, or server-side processing. They can display personalized content and update in real-time. Example: A news website that shows different articles based on user preferences and updates with new stories from a database.

9. Research and list five web browsers. Explain how rendering engines differ between them.

Five web browsers:
1. Google Chrome - Uses Blink rendering engine.
2. Mozilla Firefox - Uses Gecko rendering engine.
3. Apple Safari - Uses WebKit rendering engine.
4. Microsoft Edge - Uses Blink rendering engine.
5. Opera - Uses Blink rendering engine.

Rendering engines parse HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to display web pages. Blink (used by Chrome, Edge, Opera) is fast and Chromium-based. Gecko (Firefox) is Mozilla's engine with strong standards compliance. WebKit (Safari) is Apple's engine, known for efficiency on macOS/iOS.

10. Labeled diagram showing the basic web architecture flow — client, server, database, and APIs.


[Client (Browser)]
      |
      | HTTP Request
      v
[Web Server]
      |
      | Query/Process
      v
[Database] <--> [APIs]
      |
      | Data/Response
      v
[Client (Browser)]


Flow: Client sends request to server. Server may query database or call APIs for data. Server processes and sends response back to client, which renders the page.
